
LZMA Utils - legacy branch
--------------------------

Introduction

    LZMA Utils is an attempt to provide LZMA compression to POSIX-like
    systems. The idea is to have a gzip-like command line tool and
    a zlib-like library, which would make it easy to adapt the new
    compression technology to existing applications.

This release

    This is a stable release from the legacy branch of LZMA Utils. This
    contains a limited gzip-like command line tool, decoding-only library
    with zlib-like API, and some helper scripts for grepping and diffing.

    The legacy branch gets only bug fixes. It is maintained until the new
    code base becomes stable.

Future

    The current LZMA_Alone file format will be replaced with a new .lzma
    format. The new format fixes various problems the LZMA_Alone format
    such as lack of magic bytes and integrity check. The new tools will
    transparently support the files in the old format, but the old tools
    will never support the new format files.

    lzmainfo will be gone. "lzma -l" i.e. "lzma --list" will replace it.
    It's like "gzip -l" but for .lzma files. The output format will be
    different from gzip and lzmainfo.

    liblzmadec will be gone. It will be replaced with liblzma, which
    supports also compression and many other things.

    lzmadec will use liblzma instead of liblzmadec. lzmadec will support
    giving the filenames to decode on the command line, and support
    memory usage limitting.

Contact

    The preferred way to contact is joining #tukaani on the Freenode
    IRC network, and talk to Larhzu. Alternatively, you can email to
    <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>.

Features

    Average compression ratio of LZMA is about 30% better
    than that of gzip, and 15% better than that of bzip2.
    Decompression speed is only little slower than that of
    gzip, being two to five times faster than bzip2.
    In fast mode, compresses faster than bzip2 with a
    comparable compression ratio.
    Achieving the best compression ratios takes four to
    even twelve times longer than with bzip2. However,
    this doesn't affect decompressing speed.
    Very similar command line interface than what gzip
    and bzip2 have.
    The patch for GNU tar integrates LZMA compression
    with the tar command in the same way as with gzip
    and bzip2.
    Free software licensed under the GNU GPL (actually
    most parts are under the GNU LGPL).
