The Heirloom Bourne Shell is a portable variant of the traditio-
nal Unix shell. It has been derived from OpenSolaris code and
thus implements the SVR4/SVID3 level of the shell.

The Bourne shell is suitable for
• script portability testing. Although the Bourne shell is not
  POSIX-conforming because the POSIX.2 standard introduced requi-
  rements for the shell that were incompatible with existing Bourne
  shell behavior, it remains the father of all Unix shell scripting
  languages. Most scripts that run in the Heirloom Bourne Shell
  will run with any Unix shell that is still in use in the twenty-
  first century. It is relatively easy to write shell scripts that
  are both POSIX-conforming and usable with the Bourne shell.
• processing of legacy scripts. Some historical scripts did make
  use of language features proprietary to the Bourne shell. It can
  sometimes be a hard task to convert them to the portable shell
  language, so using a Bourne shell to run them is a convenient al-
  ternative.
• general script processing. The Bourne shell does not provide as
  many features as newer Unix shells, but it is nevertheless a
  highly usable scripting language. Also the language of the Bourne
  shell has been stable for nearly twenty years now, and will re-
  main so with this implementation. This makes the Bourne shell a
  no-surprises scripting language once the programmer has get ac-
  customed to it, which cannot be said of many newer ones.
• interactive use. The Bourne shell provides job control if it is
  invoked as jsh and runs on a terminal. Of course, it lacks fancy
  features such as a command history, command line completion, etc.
  But working with these features tends to distract the user's at-
  tention. After a familiarization phase, use of the Bourne shell
  can lead to a more even-tempered, concentrated working style.
  Give it a try. Seriously.

The manual page sh(1) is the reference documentation for the shell.
Sven Mascheck's pages – http://www.in-ulm.de/~mascheck/bourne/ –
provide background information about the Bourne shell.
