“Joe is world-famous Wordstar like text editor.”
		-- Sourcefrog
Note: in non-document mode only

joe is the professional freeware ASCII text screen editor for
UNIX®. It makes full use of the power and versatility of UNIX,
but lacks the steep learning curve and basic nonsense you have
to deal with in every other UNIX editor. jupp has the feel of
most IBM PC text editors: The key sequences are reminiscent of
WordStar and Turbo C. However, joe is much more powerful than
those editors. joe has all of the features a UNIX user should
expect: full use of termcap/terminfo, excellent screen update
optimisations (joe is fully usable at 2400 baud), simple in‐
stallation, and all of the UNIX-integration features of vi. A
number of reference cards are always available as online help
in an intuitive, simple, and well thought-out user interface,
with deferred screen update to handle typeahead, not bypassed
by tty buffering. SELinux context copying is supported.

joe has a great screen update optimisation algorithm, multiple
windows (through/between which you can scroll) and lacks the
confusing notion of named buffers. It has command history, tab
expansion in file selection menus, undo and redo functions,
(un)indenting and paragraph formatting, filtering highlighted
blocks through any external Unix command, editing a pipe into
or out of a command, and block move, copy, delete or filter; a
rectangle selection and a picture drawing mode, and a mode to
display whitespace as printable characters.

jupp is a customisation of joe which provides easy conversion
for former PC users as well as powerfulness for programmers,
while not doing annoying things “automagically” (word wrap,
for example). It can also double as hex editor and comes with
a character map (ASCII / 8-bit) plus Unicode support.

This is joe-3.x-jupp«y», a GNU GPL version 1 licenced fork
of the current state-of-the-art JOE editor from Sourceforge,
with Joe H. Allen himself starting development again after
over eight years. The MirOS fork has added UTF-8 Support for
non-LOCALE-aware operating systems (such as OpenBSD and older
versions of MirOS), the “jupp” flavour, not doing tab comple‐
tion in the search and replace dialogues, as well as -Wall
-Werror fixes, numerous bug, portability and security fixes.
It also contains an extension to visibly display tabs and
spaces, has a cleaned up, extended and beautified options
menu, more CUA style keybindings, improved math functionality
and a bracketed paste mode automatically used with XTerm.

Unix integration features: a marked block of text can be
filtered through a UNIX command, and wherever jupp accepts
a filename parameter, the following can also be used:
	!command	: to redirect from or to another command
	>>filename	: to append onto an existing file
	fn,start,size	: to edit a part of a file or device
	-		: to use standard input/output

Authors:
	Joseph “Joe” H. Allen <jhallen@world.std.com>
	Marek “Marx” Grac <xgrac@fi.muni.cz>
	Thorsten “mirabilos” Glaser <tg@mirbsd.org>
… and their contributors.
